README.md, before:

# Web eID ASP.NET example

![European Regional Development Fund](https://github.com/open-eid/DigiDoc4-Client/blob/master/client/images/EL_Regionaalarengu_Fond.png)

This project is an example ASP.NET web application that shows how to implement strong authentication and digital signing with electronic ID smart cards using Web eID.

More information about the Web eID project is available on the project [website](https://web-eid.eu/).

The ASP.NET web application makes use of the following technologies:

-   ASP.NET MVC,
-   the Web eID authentication token validation library [_web-eid-authtoken-validation-dotnet_](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-authtoken-validation-dotnet),
-   the Web eID JavaScript library [_web-eid.js_](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid.js),
-   the digital signing library [_libdigidocpp_](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/tree/master/examples/DigiDocCSharp).

## Quickstart

Complete the steps below to run the example application in order to test authentication and digital signing with Web eID.

### 1. Configure the origin URL

One crucial step of the Web eID authentication token validation algorithm is verifying the token signature. The value that is signed contains the site origin URL (the URL serving the web application) to protect against man-in-the-middle attacks. Hence the site origin URL must be configured in application settings.

To configure the origin URL, add `OriginUrl` field in the application settings file  `appsettings.json`  as follows:
```json
{
  "OriginUrl": "https://example.org"
}
```
Note that the URL **must not end with a slash** `/`.

### 2. Configure the trusted certificate authority certificates

The algorithm, which performs the validation of the Web eID authentication token, needs to know which intermediate certificate authorities (CA) are trusted to issue the eID authentication certificates. CA certificates are loaded from `.cer` files in the profile-specific subdirectory of the  [`Certificates` resource directory](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-asp-dotnet-example/src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/Certificates). By default, Estonian eID test CA certificates are included in the `Development` profile and production CA certificates in the `Production` profile.

In case you need to provide your own CA certificates, add the `.cer` files to the  `src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/Certificates/{Dev,Prod}` profile-specific directory.

### 3. Setup the `libdigidocpp` library for signing

`libdigidocpp` is a library for creating, signing and verifying digitally signed documents according to XAdES and XML-DSIG standards. It is a C++ library that has [SWIG](http://swig.org/) bindings for C#.

Set up the `libdigidocpp` library as follows:

#### For MS Windows

1.  Install the _libdigidocpp-3.14.4.msi_ package or higher. The installation packages are available from  [https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/releases](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/releases).
2.  Copy the C# source files from the `libdigidocpp` installation folder `include\digidocpp_csharp` to the `src\WebEid.AspNetCore.Example\DigiDoc` folder.
3.  Copy all files from either the `x64` subfolder of the `libdigidocpp` installation folder to the example application build output folder `bin\...\net60` (after building, see next step). When building custom applications, choose `x64` if your application is 64-bit and `x86` if it is 32-bit.
4.  When running in the `Development` profile, create an empty file named `EE_T.xml` for TSL cache as described in the [_Using test TSL lists_](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/wiki/Using-test-TSL-lists#preconditions) section of the `libdigidocpp` wiki.

#### For Ubuntu Linux

1. Add RIA repository to install the official _libdigidocpp-csharp_ package:
```sh
wget https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-asp-dotnet-example/raw/main/src/ria_public_key.gpg
cp ria_public_key.gpg /usr/share/keyrings/ria-repository.gpg
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ria-repository.gpg] https://installer.id.ee/media/ubuntu/ $(lsb_release -cs) main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ria-repository.list
```
2. Install the _libdigidocpp-csharp_ package:
```sh
apt update
apt install -y --no-install-recommends libdigidocpp-csharp
```

#### For macOS

1.  Install SWIG and build and install _libdigidocpp_ like described in [README.md](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/blob/master/README.md).
2.  Copy the C# source files from `/Library/libdigidocpp/include/digidocpp_csharp` directory to `src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/DigiDoc` directory.
3.  Go to `src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/bin/.../net60` directory and create symbolic link to `/Library/libdigidocpp/lib/libdigidoc_csharp.dylib` library:
```cmd
ln -s /Library/libdigidocpp/lib/libdigidoc_csharp.dylib
```

Further information is available in the [libdigidocpp example C# application source code](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/tree/master/examples/DigiDocCSharp) and in the [`libdigidocpp` Wiki](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/wiki).

### 4. Build the application

You need to have the [.NET 6.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0) installed for building the application package.
Build the application by running the following command in a terminal window under the `src` directory:

```cmd
dotnet build
```

### 5. Choose either the  `Development`  or  `Production`  profile

If you have a test eID card, use the  `Development`  profile. In this case access to paid services is not required, but you need to upload the authentication and signing certificates of the test card to the test OCSP responder database as described in section _[Using DigiDoc4j in test mode with the  `dev`  profile](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-spring-boot-example#using-digidoc4j-in-test-mode-with-the-dev-profile)_ of the Web eID Java example application documentation. The`Development` profile is activated by default.

If you only have a production eID card, i.e. an eID card issued to a real person or organization, use the  `Production`  profile. You can still test authentication without further configuration; however, for digital signing to work, you need access to a paid timestamping service as described in section [_Using DigiDoc4j in production mode with the  `prod`  profile_](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-spring-boot-example#using-digidoc4j-in-production-mode-with-the-prod-profile) of the Web eID Java example documentation.

You can specify the profile as an environment variable `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` when running the application. To set the profile for the current session before starting the app using [`dotnet run`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-run), use the following command:
```cmd
set ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Production
```

### 6. Run the application

Run the application with the following command in a terminal window under the `src` directory:

```cmd
dotnet run --project WebEid.AspNetCore.Example
```

This will activate the default `Development` profile and launch the built-in `kestrel` web server on HTTPS port 5001.

When the application has started, open https://localhost:5001 in your preferred web browser and follow instructions on the front page.

## Overview of the source code

The `src\WebEid.AspNetCore.Example` directory contains the ASP.NET application source code and resources. The subdirectories therein have the following purpose:
-   `wwwroot`: web server static content, including CSS and JavaScript files,
-   `Certificates`: CA certificates in profile-specific subdirectories,
-   `Controllers`: ASP.NET MVC controller for the welcome page and Web API controllers that provide endpoints for
    -   getting the challenge nonce used by the authentication token validation library,
    -   logging in,
    -   digital signing,
-   `DigiDoc`: contains the C# binding files of the `libdigidocpp` library; these files must be copied from the `libdigidocpp` installation directory `\include\digidocpp_csharp`,
-   `Pages`: Razor pages,
-   `Services`: Web eID signing service implementation that uses `libdigidocpp`.

## More information

See the [Web eID Java example application documentation](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-spring-boot-example) for more information, including answers to questions not answered below.

### Frequently asked questions

#### Why do I get the `System.ApplicationException: Failed to verify OCSP Responder certificate` error during signing?

You are running in the `Development` profile, but you have not created an empty file named `EE_T.xml` for TSL cache. Creating the file is mandatory and is described in more detail in the [_Using test TSL lists_](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/wiki/Using-test-TSL-lists#preconditions) section of the `libdigidocpp` wiki.

#### Why do I get the `System.BadImageFormatException: An attempt was made to load a program with an incorrect format` error during signing?

You are using `libdigidocpp` DLLs for the wrong architecture. Copy files from the `x64` subfolder of the  `libdigidocpp` installation folder to right place as described in the section _3. Setup the `libdigidocpp` library for signing_ above. In case you get this error while developing a custom 32-bit application, copy files from the `x86` subfolder instead.

## Building and running with Docker on Ubuntu Linux

This section covers the steps required to build the application on an Ubuntu Linux environment and run it using Docker.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- .NET SDK 7.0
- libdigidocpp-csharp

You can install them using the following command:

```sh
sudo apt install dotnet-sdk-7.0 libdigidocpp-csharp
```

### Building the application

To build the application, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the `src` directory:

    ```sh
    cd src
    ```

2. Copy the necessary DigiDoc C# library files into your project:

    ```sh
    cp /usr/include/digidocpp_csharp/* WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/DigiDoc/
    ```

3. Publish the application with the Release configuration:

    ```sh
    dotnet publish --configuration Release WebEid.AspNetCore.Example.sln
    ```

4. Update the `OriginUrl` in the `appsettings.json` to match your production environment:

    ```sh
    sed -i 's#"OriginUrl": "https://localhost:44391"#"OriginUrl": "https://example.com"#' WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/bin/Release/net6.0/publish/appsettings.json
    ```

### Building the Docker image

After successfully building the application, you can create a Docker image:

```sh
docker build -t web-eid-asp-dotnet-example .
```

This command builds a Docker image named `web-eid-asp-dotnet-example` using the `Dockerfile` in the current directory.

## Running the Docker container with HTTPS support

To enable HTTPS support for the .NET application, you have two primary options:

1. Directly configure Kestrel to use HTTPS by setting up the necessary certificate information in the app's configuration files. This method is detailed in the [ASP.NET Core documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/enforcing-ssl).

2. Employ a reverse proxy that manages TLS termination and forwards requests to the application over HTTP. This is a common pattern in production environments due to its flexibility.

In this project, we assume the application is running behind a reverse proxy.

First, the proxy server must pass the `Host:` line from the incoming request to the proxied application and set the `X-Forwarded-*` headers to inform the application that it runs behind a reverse proxy. Here is example configuration for the Apache web server:

    <Location />
        ProxyPreserveHost On
        ProxyPass http://localhost:8480/
        ProxyPassReverse http://localhost:8480/
        RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Proto https
        RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Port 443
    </Location>


Next, the .NET application must be configured to recognize and honor the `X-Forwarded-*` headers. This can be done by configuring the Forwarded Headers middleware in `Startup.cs`:

```csharp
app.UseForwardedHeaders(new ForwardedHeadersOptions
{
    ForwardedHeaders = ForwardedHeaders.XForwardedFor | ForwardedHeaders.XForwardedProto
});
```

By default, this middleware is already enabled in the application.

A Docker Compose configuration file `docker-compose.yml` is available in the `src` directory for running the Docker image `web-eid-asp-dotnet-example` on port 8480 behind a reverse proxy.

Commit message:

WE2-745
Updated MacOS instructions to install libdigidocpp from precompiled binary.

Signed-off-by: Mihkel Kivisild <mihkel.kivisild@hotmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Web eID ASP.NET example

![European Regional Development Fund](https://github.com/open-eid/DigiDoc4-Client/blob/master/client/images/EL_Regionaalarengu_Fond.png)

This project is an example ASP.NET web application that shows how to implement strong authentication and digital signing with electronic ID smart cards using Web eID.

More information about the Web eID project is available on the project [website](https://web-eid.eu/).

The ASP.NET web application makes use of the following technologies:

-   ASP.NET MVC,
-   the Web eID authentication token validation library [_web-eid-authtoken-validation-dotnet_](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-authtoken-validation-dotnet),
-   the Web eID JavaScript library [_web-eid.js_](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid.js),
-   the digital signing library [_libdigidocpp_](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/tree/master/examples/DigiDocCSharp).

## Quickstart

Complete the steps below to run the example application in order to test authentication and digital signing with Web eID.

### 1. Configure the origin URL

One crucial step of the Web eID authentication token validation algorithm is verifying the token signature. The value that is signed contains the site origin URL (the URL serving the web application) to protect against man-in-the-middle attacks. Hence the site origin URL must be configured in application settings.

To configure the origin URL, add `OriginUrl` field in the application settings file  `appsettings.json`  as follows:
```json
{
  "OriginUrl": "https://example.org"
}
```
Note that the URL **must not end with a slash** `/`.

### 2. Configure the trusted certificate authority certificates

The algorithm, which performs the validation of the Web eID authentication token, needs to know which intermediate certificate authorities (CA) are trusted to issue the eID authentication certificates. CA certificates are loaded from `.cer` files in the profile-specific subdirectory of the  [`Certificates` resource directory](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-asp-dotnet-example/src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/Certificates). By default, Estonian eID test CA certificates are included in the `Development` profile and production CA certificates in the `Production` profile.

In case you need to provide your own CA certificates, add the `.cer` files to the  `src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/Certificates/{Dev,Prod}` profile-specific directory.

### 3. Setup the `libdigidocpp` library for signing

`libdigidocpp` is a library for creating, signing and verifying digitally signed documents according to XAdES and XML-DSIG standards. It is a C++ library that has [SWIG](http://swig.org/) bindings for C#.

Set up the `libdigidocpp` library as follows:

#### For MS Windows

1.  Install the _libdigidocpp-3.14.4.msi_ package or higher. The installation packages are available from  [https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/releases](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/releases).
2.  Copy the C# source files from the `libdigidocpp` installation folder `include\digidocpp_csharp` to the `src\WebEid.AspNetCore.Example\DigiDoc` folder.
3.  Copy all files from either the `x64` subfolder of the `libdigidocpp` installation folder to the example application build output folder `bin\...\net60` (after building, see next step). When building custom applications, choose `x64` if your application is 64-bit and `x86` if it is 32-bit.
4.  When running in the `Development` profile, create an empty file named `EE_T.xml` for TSL cache as described in the [_Using test TSL lists_](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/wiki/Using-test-TSL-lists#preconditions) section of the `libdigidocpp` wiki.

#### For Ubuntu Linux

1. Add RIA repository to install the official _libdigidocpp-csharp_ package:
```sh
wget https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-asp-dotnet-example/raw/main/src/ria_public_key.gpg
cp ria_public_key.gpg /usr/share/keyrings/ria-repository.gpg
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ria-repository.gpg] https://installer.id.ee/media/ubuntu/ $(lsb_release -cs) main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ria-repository.list
```
2. Install the _libdigidocpp-csharp_ package:
```sh
apt update
apt install -y --no-install-recommends libdigidocpp-csharp
```

#### For macOS

1.  Install the _libdigidocpp-3.14.4.pkg_ package or higher. The installation packages are available from  [https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/releases](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/releases).
2.  Copy the C# source files from `/Library/libdigidocpp/include/digidocpp_csharp` directory to `src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/DigiDoc` directory.
3.  Go to `src/WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/bin/.../net60` directory and create symbolic link to `/Library/libdigidocpp/lib/libdigidoc_csharp.dylib` library:
```cmd
ln -s /Library/libdigidocpp/lib/libdigidoc_csharp.dylib
```

Further information is available in the [libdigidocpp example C# application source code](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/tree/master/examples/DigiDocCSharp) and in the [`libdigidocpp` Wiki](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/wiki).

### 4. Build the application

You need to have the [.NET 6.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0) installed for building the application package.
Build the application by running the following command in a terminal window under the `src` directory:

```cmd
dotnet build
```

### 5. Choose either the  `Development`  or  `Production`  profile

If you have a test eID card, use the  `Development`  profile. In this case access to paid services is not required, but you need to upload the authentication and signing certificates of the test card to the test OCSP responder database as described in section _[Using DigiDoc4j in test mode with the  `dev`  profile](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-spring-boot-example#using-digidoc4j-in-test-mode-with-the-dev-profile)_ of the Web eID Java example application documentation. The`Development` profile is activated by default.

If you only have a production eID card, i.e. an eID card issued to a real person or organization, use the  `Production`  profile. You can still test authentication without further configuration; however, for digital signing to work, you need access to a paid timestamping service as described in section [_Using DigiDoc4j in production mode with the  `prod`  profile_](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-spring-boot-example#using-digidoc4j-in-production-mode-with-the-prod-profile) of the Web eID Java example documentation.

You can specify the profile as an environment variable `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` when running the application. To set the profile for the current session before starting the app using [`dotnet run`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-run), use the following command:
```cmd
set ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Production
```

### 6. Run the application

Run the application with the following command in a terminal window under the `src` directory:

```cmd
dotnet run --project WebEid.AspNetCore.Example
```

This will activate the default `Development` profile and launch the built-in `kestrel` web server on HTTPS port 5001.

When the application has started, open https://localhost:5001 in your preferred web browser and follow instructions on the front page.

## Overview of the source code

The `src\WebEid.AspNetCore.Example` directory contains the ASP.NET application source code and resources. The subdirectories therein have the following purpose:
-   `wwwroot`: web server static content, including CSS and JavaScript files,
-   `Certificates`: CA certificates in profile-specific subdirectories,
-   `Controllers`: ASP.NET MVC controller for the welcome page and Web API controllers that provide endpoints for
    -   getting the challenge nonce used by the authentication token validation library,
    -   logging in,
    -   digital signing,
-   `DigiDoc`: contains the C# binding files of the `libdigidocpp` library; these files must be copied from the `libdigidocpp` installation directory `\include\digidocpp_csharp`,
-   `Pages`: Razor pages,
-   `Services`: Web eID signing service implementation that uses `libdigidocpp`.

## More information

See the [Web eID Java example application documentation](https://github.com/web-eid/web-eid-spring-boot-example) for more information, including answers to questions not answered below.

### Frequently asked questions

#### Why do I get the `System.ApplicationException: Failed to verify OCSP Responder certificate` error during signing?

You are running in the `Development` profile, but you have not created an empty file named `EE_T.xml` for TSL cache. Creating the file is mandatory and is described in more detail in the [_Using test TSL lists_](https://github.com/open-eid/libdigidocpp/wiki/Using-test-TSL-lists#preconditions) section of the `libdigidocpp` wiki.

#### Why do I get the `System.BadImageFormatException: An attempt was made to load a program with an incorrect format` error during signing?

You are using `libdigidocpp` DLLs for the wrong architecture. Copy files from the `x64` subfolder of the  `libdigidocpp` installation folder to right place as described in the section _3. Setup the `libdigidocpp` library for signing_ above. In case you get this error while developing a custom 32-bit application, copy files from the `x86` subfolder instead.

## Building and running with Docker on Ubuntu Linux

This section covers the steps required to build the application on an Ubuntu Linux environment and run it using Docker.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- .NET SDK 7.0
- libdigidocpp-csharp

You can install them using the following command:

```sh
sudo apt install dotnet-sdk-7.0 libdigidocpp-csharp
```

### Building the application

To build the application, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the `src` directory:

    ```sh
    cd src
    ```

2. Copy the necessary DigiDoc C# library files into your project:

    ```sh
    cp /usr/include/digidocpp_csharp/* WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/DigiDoc/
    ```

3. Publish the application with the Release configuration:

    ```sh
    dotnet publish --configuration Release WebEid.AspNetCore.Example.sln
    ```

4. Update the `OriginUrl` in the `appsettings.json` to match your production environment:

    ```sh
    sed -i 's#"OriginUrl": "https://localhost:44391"#"OriginUrl": "https://example.com"#' WebEid.AspNetCore.Example/bin/Release/net6.0/publish/appsettings.json
    ```

### Building the Docker image

After successfully building the application, you can create a Docker image:

```sh
docker build -t web-eid-asp-dotnet-example .
```

This command builds a Docker image named `web-eid-asp-dotnet-example` using the `Dockerfile` in the current directory.

## Running the Docker container with HTTPS support

To enable HTTPS support for the .NET application, you have two primary options:

1. Directly configure Kestrel to use HTTPS by setting up the necessary certificate information in the app's configuration files. This method is detailed in the [ASP.NET Core documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/enforcing-ssl).

2. Employ a reverse proxy that manages TLS termination and forwards requests to the application over HTTP. This is a common pattern in production environments due to its flexibility.

In this project, we assume the application is running behind a reverse proxy.

First, the proxy server must pass the `Host:` line from the incoming request to the proxied application and set the `X-Forwarded-*` headers to inform the application that it runs behind a reverse proxy. Here is example configuration for the Apache web server:

    <Location />
        ProxyPreserveHost On
        ProxyPass http://localhost:8480/
        ProxyPassReverse http://localhost:8480/
        RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Proto https
        RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Port 443
    </Location>


Next, the .NET application must be configured to recognize and honor the `X-Forwarded-*` headers. This can be done by configuring the Forwarded Headers middleware in `Startup.cs`:

```csharp
app.UseForwardedHeaders(new ForwardedHeadersOptions
{
    ForwardedHeaders = ForwardedHeaders.XForwardedFor | ForwardedHeaders.XForwardedProto
});
```

By default, this middleware is already enabled in the application.

A Docker Compose configuration file `docker-compose.yml` is available in the `src` directory for running the Docker image `web-eid-asp-dotnet-example` on port 8480 behind a reverse proxy.
